Hello and welcome back to the course and blotching super excited about this tutorial because today we're
kicking of Munjal number two about crypto currencies.
And in this literally when you talk about bitcoin What is Bitcoin.
Moreover we're actually going to create a very clear understanding of different things like blog chain
Bitcoins protocols coins tokens and things like that because there's a lot of confusion out there.
There are a lot of misleading terms.
We're going to clear that up once and for all so we lay a very very good foundation for us to move forward
with the rest of this module and the rest of the course.
All right so let's dive straight into it in the crypto world.
There are three very important layers.
Layer one is technology.
There too is protocol and also includes coin and layer three is tokin.
And this is going to be our roadmap of how where everything fits in how the puzzle comes together at
the top.
We've got blotching that is the technology that we've been talking about in module one and we've discussed
in detail we know how it works.
Then in Layer 2 in the protocol there we have things like Bitcoin and it's very important here to understand
that Bitcoin is not just a coin.
It's not just a currency it's an actual protocol.
And what is a protocol protocol is a set of rules that guys how participants over a network communicate
with each other.
For example TCAP or IP or HTP.
Those are all protocols because they allow participants of networks to communicate with each other the
IP port of call is the internet Percoco allows us all to participate in the Internet.
HD T is a hypertext transfer protocol which allows our browsers to display Web sites correctly.
Bitcoin is no different.
It is a protocol is a set of rules on how participants of the end of the bitcoin network will communicate
with each other and agree on things.
For example the protocol dictates how they should come to consensus of things we've talked about that
before the protocol also dictates how public keys and signatures should be used for authentication.
And that's something we'll talk about later down further down on the course.
The protocol also dictates on how they agree on updates to the protocol itself and lots more other things
that are required in order for this whole network to function correctly.
There's also other protocols in the world of crypto for example.
There is a protocol.
You may have heard of Theertham very very famous protocol.
And we'll talk more about it in this course.
Of course there's also Ripl is Neal there's waves and there's lots and lots more others that just there's
not enough space in this slide to fit them all in life.
Cohen is a protocol.
Bitcoin caches of protocols that caches a protocol Manero is a protocol there's lots of different protocols
in the world of crypto currencies which all rely on the same technology and technology is blocking.
Now the next step is that protocols actually contain within them an important feature and that feature
is called the coin each one of these protocols has its own coins.
Bitcoin has the Bitcoin.
The theory has either a ripple ripple is usually just named after the protocol itself.
But there's only one coin attached to every particle every particle has a coin attached to it and the
coin is an innate asset of the protocol which facilitates the interaction of players which is used to
reward people for mining the block chain and adding clocks is also used for people to be able to purchase
things from each other and so on.
So that is the coin.
Next we move on two way or three and layer three is the token and a token is when you hear the term
I see your initial coin offering.
It's a very very misleading term.
It's a great term but it's misleading because ICAO is actually about tokens.
So I suppose even those called initial court offering is what they're offering are tokens and we'll
talk more about CEOs and tokens in modules 3 of course but right now it's important to understand the
difference that coins are in Layer 2 tokens are in Layer 3.
So tokens they rely on smart contracts which are built on top of the different protocols we see in Lehre
to for example in Theorem A It is the most popular protocol for creating smart card tracks and for creating
therefore for tokens it has the highest number of tokens as hundreds of tokens on a theory.
There is just a couple of examples of them in for instance Bitcoin has no tokens on it because it does
not facilitate that concept of creating smart contracts and therefore nobody creates tokens on Bitcoins
you just can't do that.
Ripl also doesn't have any tokens on it.
Nio on the other hand has quite a lot of tokens in it was the up and coming challenger of lithium and
Wavves has a couple of tokens on it as well.
So that's how the world of crypto currencies and just crypto technology and blotching works as you can
see this.
Three players discussed this lair in which one is going to be talking about this later in module to
her dominantly about this lair and this player will be covering of which all three are now very important
to understand the difference between a coin and a token.
And that I suppose refer to tokens rather than coins as.
Yeah.
And let's have a look now at this Web site here which is gold coin market cap dot com.
You've probably seen people reference this website if you've been dabbling in the world of cryptocurrency
and maybe watching some videos on youtube then you would have seen people reference and market cap dot
com and come here to explore things like the volume or the trading volume the market capitalization
of currency the graphs the prices and so on.
And so right away you can see there's like hundreds and hundreds of Crypta currencies but the whole
term.
Then look at the market market capitalization of everything together 442 billion dollars.
That's insane.
So what is a bit confusing here is a whole term cryptocurrency.
What does that refer to does refer to the coins or the tokens.
That's why Luckily they have here a button or two tabs for one for coins and one for tokens.
And that's exactly what we spoke about that here right now we have a mix of coins and tokens and we
can go into coins to see those coins that we'll be talking about in.
So even here it's important to understand the difference right.
So if you if somebody is investing into a coin they're investing into the protocol of that underlying
that coin.
So Bitcoin or Theoria ripple and so on.
If they're investing a token then you're investing into the idea behind what they're building.
So you can see that which which tokens are on which platform you mysterium so this token is on.
These are mostly theories and this one is Neo.
And on many another one our doors so very interesting situation there red pulses Neo.
So and if you're investing into tokin you're investing to you but we're not going to be talking about
investing right now.
The whole point is that coins are different tokens.
And the other point is that there's tons of them as you can see there's tons of them and so what we'll
be covering often this course is predominantly about Bitcoin.
But at the same time a lot of the concepts are applicable across different coins and protocols.
The reason why we are using bitcoin because it's the most famous one it's the most popular one.
It's it's the law is the one that's been around for the longest and it's much better to color off all
of these things.
We are working example rather than just talking about general theoretical ideas and that will put things
into perspective and then if you ever want to move on to something else like Ethereal ripple like coin
and learn about it you will be very easy to transfer the knowledge.
OK.
And so let's quickly talk about what bitcoin actually is.
So because it was invented in 2008 by a person or people who were operating under the name Satoshi Nakamoto
nobody knows exactly who Sudarshan Okamoto is.
They don't know if it's one person or many people and it's still a mystery but nevertheless there is
a white paper published under the name of a company that Comodo happened 2008 which explains this whole
system in a lot of detail all of the ideas many of the ideas that we talked about in my show one many
of the ideas that we'll talk about and module to here and then in 2009 the bitcoin system was implemented.
There's actually a really cool viz. of from like of the good Hobb repository how it was changing and
we show how Bitcoin was like it was created which people worked on Bitcoin and so on and so yeah.
It started in 2009 so it's almost 10 years old and it's going to and is still being developed.
It's like always growing.
There's lots of all participants So what is Bitcoin all about.
Well Bitcoin is about taking that block change technology which we covered in detail in module 1 and
take it taking it from theory and moving into practice so that a network of people can transact for
each other using this technology.
So that's now all of a sudden they don't need intermediaries between them that even though they haven't
never met each other they can still trust each other because they trust the technology behind it and
that pulls out all of the different intermediaries such as banks from the system.
So that layer 2 is about creating a protocol of helping people transact an inherent component of transacting
is exchange of value.
And that's why the Quine's are part of a letter to their part of the protocol and that's why the protocol
removes one of the biggest intermediaries that we know about is the banking sector because the banking
system as you can see there's like no bank in the middle here that people are acting at the same time
we know that blotching can be used for many different things from healthcare to media distribution to
logistics.
Pretty much any industry you think of it can be used.
Well that can be built on top of the protocol that is created by a big core theory aminal and so on
and that's where the tokens come and that's the next Lasley or three when we disrupt other industries
and in Layer 2 it's about creating this system where people can transact with each other and as a part
of it removing the banking intermedius because Pa an important component of transparency is exchange
of value.
And finally the Bitcoin ecosystem includes the falling participants there are nodes and it's not a term
for people it's a term for rather the devices that people use that participant and which are not mining
the network.
So just people who were devices of people who want to transact with each other on this network there's
minors and prove following the tradition from Mudgal one which is going to keep representing minors
with a laptop and these are participants who actually help the blog chain itself grow by mining it by
adding transactions into blocks and blocks into the block chain.
There are large miners we'll see examples of those.
These are miners with lots and lots of power lots and lots of devices and equipment which have a lot
of make a contribution to the growth of the chain.
And they are mining pools that's when miners get together to work together on the mining process.
So there we go.
That is what's been causal about that's the Bitcoin ecosystem and probably the most important thing
to remember is that Bitcoin is a protocol it's just a coin it's a protocol that facilitates that long
technology and makes it come to life.
Just one of the Protocols is multiple different.
And on that note here is a suggestion for additional reading.
This is the actual original white paper by Santoshi that Come-Outer is called Bitcoin a peer to peer
electronic cash system.
And you can find it on the Bitcoin website.
Bitcoin dot org says Bitcoin PTF.
Interesting read.
I wouldn't say that it's too technical.
Some parts are technical but there is no complex math or a god or even just like looking at the paper
and reading the abstract and the first couple of pages can be useful just for understanding where all
of these things came from that are changing the world that are disrupting the way we think and that
it's going to be one of the biggest disruptors in the next 10 years.
And on that note I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and if things are much clearer now and we've laid
a good foundation for the rest of the course going forward I look forward to seeing you back here next.
And until then enjoy bludgeons.